break out of that report to take you
live to Geneva that's the uh wh uh head
director General speaking holding a news
conference let's listen in has quite
understandably posed its
operations I honor our colleagues for
their service and for putting themselves
In Harm's Way to serve
others who has been working with World
Central Kitchen in Gaza to deliver food
to health workers and patients in
hospitals this horrific incident
highlights the extreme danger under
which who colleagues and our partners
are working and will continue to
work but we can only do so with safe
access this means an effective and
transparent mechanism for the
confliction must be put in place to
ensure humanitarian convoys can move
safely we need
more entry points including in Northern
Gaza cleared roads and predictable and
expedited Passage through
checkpoints delays and denials of
humanitarian missions not only prevent
us from reaching those in need but also
impact other operations and deliveries
by diverting scarce
resources in addition to the attack on
world Central Kitchen Convoy we're
likewise appold that alifa hospital has
been put out of action and that much of
it has been badly damaged or
destroyed over the last few days who's
team in Gaza has been seeking permission
to access what is left of the hospital
to speak with staff and to see what can
be
saved but at the moment the situation
looks
disastrous I'll was the largest hospital
and Main referral center in the Gaza
Strip with 750 beds 26 operating rooms
32 intensive care rooms a dialysis
department and a central
laboratory I
repeat hospitals must be respected and
protected they must not be used as
battlefields since the conflict began
who has verified 96 attacks on Health
Care in Gaza the West Bank Israel and
Lebanon resulting in 736 deaths and 1,4
injuries only 10 of Gaza 36 hospitals
are still able to function even
partially W Jo will continue to support
those hospitals to deliver Services as
best they can
more than 33,000 people have now been
killed in
Gaza and almost 80,000
injured we're seeing a very high burden
of respiratory and skin infections and
dial
illness this Sunday marks 6 months since
the conflict
began wh welcomes last week's un
Security Council resolution demanding a
ceasefire and we call for its IM
immediate
implementation once again we call for
all Hostage to be released and for
lasting
peace now to the Democratic Republic of
the Congo which is experiencing a severe
outbreak of empo more than 4,500
suspected cases and almost 300 deaths
have been reported so far this year
triple the numbers of cases and deaths
reported in the first quarter of last
year 19 of drc's 26 provinces have
reported cases and 70% of cases and 87%
of deaths are in children under 15 years
of
age while empo is spread among children
by close contact there is also a
concerning outbreak among adults due to
sexual transm transmission
in previously unaffected
areas these outbreaks are being caused
by Clay one of the virus that causes
empo which has been present in DRC for
decades and can cause higher mortality
than the clay to virus that spread
globally in 202 so uh that's the
director general of the World Health
Organization and uh he was just starting
to speak on the conditions in the
Democratic Republic of Congo but before
that he did focus on the situation in
Gaza and he is appealing for safe access
for humanitarian workers in the Gaza
Strip he's also appealing uh for access
to checkpoints as well as well as land
borders for uh more Aid to get into the
Gaza Strip he said that the who as an
organization has been seeking access to
Al shifa Hospital which as you may
recall was raided by the Israeli forces
and completely destroyed it's been put
out of action according to the wh chief
he also said that hospitals must be
protected this all coming after the
Israeli military launched three
consecutive air strikes against the
world Central kitchen workers earlier
this week killing uh foreign Nationals